docs/integration/astro.mdx, before:

---
title: 'Astro'
description: 'Run bknd inside Astro'
---
import InstallBknd from '/snippets/install-bknd.mdx';

## Installation
Install bknd as a dependency:
<InstallBknd />

For the Astro integration to work, you also need to [add the react integration](https://docs.astro.build/en/guides/integrations-guide/react/):
```bash
npx astro add react
```

You also need to make sure to set the output to `hybrid` in your Astro config:
```js {6}
// astro.config.mjs
import { defineConfig } from "astro/config";
import react from "@astrojs/react";

export default defineConfig({
   output: "hybrid",
   integrations: [react()]
});
```

<Note>
   If you don't want to use React with Astro, there is also an option to serve the bknd Admin UI
   statically using Astro's middleware. In case you're interested in this, feel free to reach
   out in [Discord](https://discord.gg/952SFk8Tb8) or open an [issue on GitHub](https://github.com/bknd-io/bknd/issues/new).
</Note>

## Serve the API
Create a new catch-all route at `src/pages/api/[...api].ts`:
```ts src/pages/api/[...api].ts
import { serve } from "bknd/adapter/astro";

export const prerender = false;

export const ALL = serve({
   connection: {
      type: "libsql",
      config: {
         url: "http://127.0.0.1:8080"
      }
   }
});
```
For more information about the connection object, refer to the [Setup](/setup) guide. In the
special case of astro, you may also use your Astro DB credentials since it's also using LibSQL
under the hood. Refer to the [Astro DB documentation](https://docs.astro.build/en/guides/astro-db/) for more information.

## Enabling the Admin UI
Create a new catch-all route at `src/pages/admin/[...admin].astro`:
```jsx src/pages/admin/[...admin].astro
---
import { Admin } from "bknd/ui";
import "bknd/dist/styles.css";

import { getApi } from "bknd/adapter/astro";

const api = getApi(Astro, { mode: "dynamic" });
const user = api.getUser();

export const prerender = false;
---

<html>
   <body>
      <Admin
         withProvider={{ user }}
         config={{ basepath: "/admin", color_scheme: "dark" }}
         client:load
      />
   </body>
</html>
```

## Example usage of the API
You use the API in both static and SSR pages. Just note that on static pages, authentication
might not work as expected, because Cookies are not available in the static context.

Here is an example of using the API in static context:
```jsx
---
import { getApi } from "bknd/adapter/astro";
const api = getApi(Astro);
const { data } = await api.data.readMany("todos");
---

<ul>
   {data.map((todo) => (
      <li>{todo.title}</li>
   ))}
</ul>
```

On SSR pages, you can also access the authenticated user:
```jsx
---
import { getApi } from "bknd/adapter/astro";
const api = getApi(Astro, { mode: "dynamic" });
const user = api.getUser();
const { data } = await api.data.readMany("todos");

export const prerender = false;
---

{user
   ? <p>Logged in as <b>{user.email}</b>.</p>
   : <p>Not authenticated.</p>}
<ul>
   {data.map((todo) => (
      <li>{todo.title}</li>
   ))}
</ul>
```

Check the [astro example](https://github.com/bknd-io/bknd/tree/main/examples/astro) for more implementation details.

Commit message:

docs: updated astro to add external example + added hint for astro db issues on v5

docs/integration/astro.mdx, after:

---
title: 'Astro'
description: 'Run bknd inside Astro'
---
import InstallBknd from '/snippets/install-bknd.mdx';

## Installation
Install bknd as a dependency:
<InstallBknd />

<Note>The guide below assumes you're using Astro v4. We've experienced issues with Astro DB
   using v5, see [this issue](https://github.com/withastro/astro/issues/12474).</Note>

For the Astro integration to work, you also need to [add the react integration](https://docs.astro.build/en/guides/integrations-guide/react/):
```bash
npx astro add react
```

You also need to make sure to set the output to `hybrid` in your Astro config:
```js {6}
// astro.config.mjs
import { defineConfig } from "astro/config";
import react from "@astrojs/react";

export default defineConfig({
   output: "hybrid",
   integrations: [react()]
});
```

<Note>
   If you don't want to use React with Astro, there is also an option to serve the bknd Admin UI
   statically using Astro's middleware. In case you're interested in this, feel free to reach
   out in [Discord](https://discord.gg/952SFk8Tb8) or open an [issue on GitHub](https://github.com/bknd-io/bknd/issues/new).
</Note>

## Serve the API
Create a new catch-all route at `src/pages/api/[...api].ts`:
```ts src/pages/api/[...api].ts
import { serve } from "bknd/adapter/astro";

export const prerender = false;

export const ALL = serve({
   connection: {
      type: "libsql",
      config: {
         url: "http://127.0.0.1:8080"
      }
   }
});
```
For more information about the connection object, refer to the [Setup](/setup) guide. In the
special case of astro, you may also use your Astro DB credentials since it's also using LibSQL
under the hood. Refer to the [Astro DB documentation](https://docs.astro.build/en/guides/astro-db/) for more information.

## Enabling the Admin UI
Create a new catch-all route at `src/pages/admin/[...admin].astro`:
```jsx src/pages/admin/[...admin].astro
---
import { Admin } from "bknd/ui";
import "bknd/dist/styles.css";

import { getApi } from "bknd/adapter/astro";

const api = getApi(Astro, { mode: "dynamic" });
const user = api.getUser();

export const prerender = false;
---

<html>
   <body>
      <Admin
         withProvider={{ user }}
         config={{ basepath: "/admin", color_scheme: "dark" }}
         client:load
      />
   </body>
</html>
```

## Example usage of the API
You use the API in both static and SSR pages. Just note that on static pages, authentication
might not work as expected, because Cookies are not available in the static context.

Here is an example of using the API in static context:
```jsx
---
import { getApi } from "bknd/adapter/astro";
const api = getApi(Astro);
const { data } = await api.data.readMany("todos");
---

<ul>
   {data.map((todo) => (
      <li>{todo.title}</li>
   ))}
</ul>
```

On SSR pages, you can also access the authenticated user:
```jsx
---
import { getApi } from "bknd/adapter/astro";
const api = getApi(Astro, { mode: "dynamic" });
const user = api.getUser();
const { data } = await api.data.readMany("todos");

export const prerender = false;
---

{user
   ? <p>Logged in as <b>{user.email}</b>.</p>
   : <p>Not authenticated.</p>}
<ul>
   {data.map((todo) => (
      <li>{todo.title}</li>
   ))}
</ul>
```

Check the [astro repository example](https://github.com/bknd-io/bknd/tree/main/examples/astro)
for more implementation details or a [fully working example using Astro DB](https://github.com/dswbx/bknd-astro-example).
